docs/source/manual/openfpga_shell/openfpga_commands/fpga_verilog_commands.rst, before:

.. _openfpga_verilog_commands:

FPGA-Verilog
------------

write_fabric_verilog
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

  Write the Verilog netlist for FPGA fabric based on module graph. See details in :ref:`fabric_netlists`.

  .. option:: --file <string> or -f <string> 

    Specify the output directory for the Verilog netlists. For example, ``--file /temp/fabric_netlist/``

  .. option:: --default_net_type <string>

    Specify the default net type for the Verilog netlists. Currently, supported types are ``none`` and ``wire``. Default value: ``none``.

  .. option:: --explicit_port_mapping

    Use explicit port mapping when writing the Verilog netlists

  .. option:: --include_timing

    Output timing information to Verilog netlists for primitive modules
 
  .. option:: --print_user_defined_template

    Output a template Verilog netlist for all the user-defined ``circuit models`` in :ref:`circuit_library`. This aims to help engineers to check what is the port sequence required by top-level Verilog netlists

  .. option:: --verbose

    Show verbose log

write_full_testbench
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
 
  Write the full testbench for FPGA fabric in Verilog format. See details in :ref:`fpga_verilog_testbench`.

  .. option:: --file <string> or -f <string>
     
    The output directory for all the testbench netlists. We suggest the use of same output directory as fabric Verilog netlists. For example, ``--file /temp/testbench``

  .. option:: --bitstream <string>     

    The bitstream file to be loaded to the full testbench, which should be in the same file format that OpenFPGA can outputs (See detailes in :ref:`file_formats_fabric_bitstream_plain_text`). For example, ``--bitstream and2.bit``

  .. option:: --fabric_netlist_file_path <string>

    Specify the fabric Verilog file if they are not in the same directory as the testbenches to be generated. If not specified, OpenFPGA will assume that the fabric netlists are the in the same directory as testbenches and assign default names. For example, ``--file /temp/fabric/fabric_netlists.v``

  .. option:: --reference_benchmark_file_path <string>

    Must specify the reference benchmark Verilog file if you want to output any testbenches. For example, ``--reference_benchmark_file_path /temp/benchmark/counter_post_synthesis.v``

  .. option:: --pin_constraints_file <string> or -pcf <string>

    Specify the *Pin Constraints File* (PCF) if you want to custom stimulus in testbenches. For example, ``-pin_constraints_file pin_constraints.xml``
    Strongly recommend for multi-clock simulations. See detailed file format about :ref:`file_format_pin_constraints_file`.

  .. option:: --fast_configuration

    Enable fast configuration phase for the top-level testbench in order to reduce runtime of simulations. It is applicable to configuration chain, memory bank and frame-based configuration protocols. For configuration chain, when enabled, the zeros at the head of the bitstream will be skipped. For memory bank and frame-based, when enabled, all the zero configuration bits will be skipped. So ensure that your memory cells can be correctly reset to zero with a reset signal. 

    .. note:: If both reset and set ports are defined in the circuit modeling for programming, OpenFPGA will pick the one that will bring largest benefit in speeding up configuration.

  .. option:: --explicit_port_mapping

    Use explicit port mapping when writing the Verilog netlists

  .. option:: --default_net_type <string>

    Specify the default net type for the Verilog netlists. Currently, supported types are ``none`` and ``wire``. Default value: ``none``.

  .. option:: --include_signal_init

    Output signal initialization to Verilog testbench to smooth convergence in HDL simulation

  .. option:: --verbose

    Show verbose log

write_preconfigured_fabric_wrapper
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
 
  Write the Verilog wrapper for a preconfigured FPGA fabric. See details in :ref:`fpga_verilog_testbench`.

  .. option:: --file <string> or -f <string>
     
    The output directory for the netlists. We suggest the use of same output directory as fabric Verilog netlists. For example, ``--file /temp/testbench``

  .. option:: --fabric_netlist_file_path <string>

    Specify the fabric Verilog file if they are not in the same directory as the testbenches to be generated. If not specified, OpenFPGA will assume that the fabric netlists are the in the same directory as testbenches and assign default names. For example, ``--file /temp/fabric/fabric_netlists.v``

  .. option:: --pin_constraints_file <string> or -pcf <string>

    Specify the *Pin Constraints File* (PCF) if you want to custom stimulus in testbenches. For example, ``-pin_constraints_file pin_constraints.xml``
    Strongly recommend for multi-clock simulations. See detailed file format about :ref:`file_format_pin_constraints_file`.

  .. option:: --explicit_port_mapping

    Use explicit port mapping when writing the Verilog netlists

  .. option:: --default_net_type <string>

    Specify the default net type for the Verilog netlists. Currently, supported types are ``none`` and ``wire``. Default value: ``none``.

  .. option:: --support_icarus_simulator
     
    Output Verilog netlists with syntax that iVerilog simulator can accept

  .. option:: --include_signal_init

    Output signal initialization to Verilog testbench to smooth convergence in HDL simulation

  .. option:: --verbose

    Show verbose log

write_preconfigured_testbench
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
 
  Write the Verilog testbench for a preconfigured FPGA fabric. See details in :ref:`fpga_verilog_testbench`.

  .. option:: --file <string> or -f <string>
     
    The output directory for all the testbench netlists. We suggest the use of same output directory as fabric Verilog netlists. For example, ``--file /temp/testbench``

  .. option:: --fabric_netlist_file_path <string>

    Specify the fabric Verilog file if they are not in the same directory as the testbenches to be generated. If not specified, OpenFPGA will assume that the fabric netlists are the in the same directory as testbenches and assign default names. For example, ``--file /temp/fabric/fabric_netlists.v``

  .. option:: --reference_benchmark_file_path <string>

    Must specify the reference benchmark Verilog file if you want to output any testbenches. For example, ``--reference_benchmark_file_path /temp/benchmark/counter_post_synthesis.v``

  .. option:: --pin_constraints_file <string> or -pcf <string>

    Specify the *Pin Constraints File* (PCF) if you want to custom stimulus in testbenches. For example, ``-pin_constraints_file pin_constraints.xml``
    Strongly recommend for multi-clock simulations. See detailed file format about :ref:`file_format_pin_constraints_file`.

  .. option:: --explicit_port_mapping

    Use explicit port mapping when writing the Verilog netlists

  .. option:: --default_net_type <string>

    Specify the default net type for the Verilog netlists. Currently, supported types are ``none`` and ``wire``. Default value: ``none``.

  .. option:: --support_icarus_simulator
     
    Output Verilog netlists with syntax that iVerilog simulator can accept

  .. option:: --verbose

    Show verbose log

write_simulation_task_info
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

  Write an interchangeable file in ``.ini`` format to interface HDL simulators, such as iVerilog and Modelsim.

  .. option:: --file <string> or -f <string>

    Specify the file path to output simulation-related information. For example, ``--file simulation.ini``

  .. option:: --hdl_dir <string>

    Specify the directory path where HDL netlists are created. For example, ``--hdl_dir ./SRC``

  .. option:: --reference_benchmark_file_path <string>

    Must specify the reference benchmark Verilog file if you want to output any testbenches. For example, ``--reference_benchmark_file_path /temp/benchmark/counter_post_synthesis.v``

  .. option:: --verbose

    Show verbose log

Commit message:

[Doc] update documentation on the new option '--testbench_type'

docs/source/manual/openfpga_shell/openfpga_commands/fpga_verilog_commands.rst, after:

.. _openfpga_verilog_commands:

FPGA-Verilog
------------

write_fabric_verilog
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

  Write the Verilog netlist for FPGA fabric based on module graph. See details in :ref:`fabric_netlists`.

  .. option:: --file <string> or -f <string> 

    Specify the output directory for the Verilog netlists. For example, ``--file /temp/fabric_netlist/``

  .. option:: --default_net_type <string>

    Specify the default net type for the Verilog netlists. Currently, supported types are ``none`` and ``wire``. Default value: ``none``.

  .. option:: --explicit_port_mapping

    Use explicit port mapping when writing the Verilog netlists

  .. option:: --include_timing

    Output timing information to Verilog netlists for primitive modules
 
  .. option:: --print_user_defined_template

    Output a template Verilog netlist for all the user-defined ``circuit models`` in :ref:`circuit_library`. This aims to help engineers to check what is the port sequence required by top-level Verilog netlists

  .. option:: --verbose

    Show verbose log

write_full_testbench
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
 
  Write the full testbench for FPGA fabric in Verilog format. See details in :ref:`fpga_verilog_testbench`.

  .. option:: --file <string> or -f <string>
     
    The output directory for all the testbench netlists. We suggest the use of same output directory as fabric Verilog netlists. For example, ``--file /temp/testbench``

  .. option:: --bitstream <string>     

    The bitstream file to be loaded to the full testbench, which should be in the same file format that OpenFPGA can outputs (See detailes in :ref:`file_formats_fabric_bitstream_plain_text`). For example, ``--bitstream and2.bit``

  .. option:: --fabric_netlist_file_path <string>

    Specify the fabric Verilog file if they are not in the same directory as the testbenches to be generated. If not specified, OpenFPGA will assume that the fabric netlists are the in the same directory as testbenches and assign default names. For example, ``--file /temp/fabric/fabric_netlists.v``

  .. option:: --reference_benchmark_file_path <string>

    Must specify the reference benchmark Verilog file if you want to output any testbenches. For example, ``--reference_benchmark_file_path /temp/benchmark/counter_post_synthesis.v``

  .. option:: --pin_constraints_file <string> or -pcf <string>

    Specify the *Pin Constraints File* (PCF) if you want to custom stimulus in testbenches. For example, ``-pin_constraints_file pin_constraints.xml``
    Strongly recommend for multi-clock simulations. See detailed file format about :ref:`file_format_pin_constraints_file`.

  .. option:: --fast_configuration

    Enable fast configuration phase for the top-level testbench in order to reduce runtime of simulations. It is applicable to configuration chain, memory bank and frame-based configuration protocols. For configuration chain, when enabled, the zeros at the head of the bitstream will be skipped. For memory bank and frame-based, when enabled, all the zero configuration bits will be skipped. So ensure that your memory cells can be correctly reset to zero with a reset signal. 

    .. note:: If both reset and set ports are defined in the circuit modeling for programming, OpenFPGA will pick the one that will bring largest benefit in speeding up configuration.

  .. option:: --explicit_port_mapping

    Use explicit port mapping when writing the Verilog netlists

  .. option:: --default_net_type <string>

    Specify the default net type for the Verilog netlists. Currently, supported types are ``none`` and ``wire``. Default value: ``none``.

  .. option:: --include_signal_init

    Output signal initialization to Verilog testbench to smooth convergence in HDL simulation

  .. option:: --verbose

    Show verbose log

write_preconfigured_fabric_wrapper
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
 
  Write the Verilog wrapper for a preconfigured FPGA fabric. See details in :ref:`fpga_verilog_testbench`.

  .. option:: --file <string> or -f <string>
     
    The output directory for the netlists. We suggest the use of same output directory as fabric Verilog netlists. For example, ``--file /temp/testbench``

  .. option:: --fabric_netlist_file_path <string>

    Specify the fabric Verilog file if they are not in the same directory as the testbenches to be generated. If not specified, OpenFPGA will assume that the fabric netlists are the in the same directory as testbenches and assign default names. For example, ``--file /temp/fabric/fabric_netlists.v``

  .. option:: --pin_constraints_file <string> or -pcf <string>

    Specify the *Pin Constraints File* (PCF) if you want to custom stimulus in testbenches. For example, ``-pin_constraints_file pin_constraints.xml``
    Strongly recommend for multi-clock simulations. See detailed file format about :ref:`file_format_pin_constraints_file`.

  .. option:: --explicit_port_mapping

    Use explicit port mapping when writing the Verilog netlists

  .. option:: --default_net_type <string>

    Specify the default net type for the Verilog netlists. Currently, supported types are ``none`` and ``wire``. Default value: ``none``.

  .. option:: --support_icarus_simulator
     
    Output Verilog netlists with syntax that iVerilog simulator can accept

  .. option:: --include_signal_init

    Output signal initialization to Verilog testbench to smooth convergence in HDL simulation

  .. option:: --verbose

    Show verbose log

write_preconfigured_testbench
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
 
  Write the Verilog testbench for a preconfigured FPGA fabric. See details in :ref:`fpga_verilog_testbench`.

  .. option:: --file <string> or -f <string>
     
    The output directory for all the testbench netlists. We suggest the use of same output directory as fabric Verilog netlists. For example, ``--file /temp/testbench``

  .. option:: --fabric_netlist_file_path <string>

    Specify the fabric Verilog file if they are not in the same directory as the testbenches to be generated. If not specified, OpenFPGA will assume that the fabric netlists are the in the same directory as testbenches and assign default names. For example, ``--file /temp/fabric/fabric_netlists.v``

  .. option:: --reference_benchmark_file_path <string>

    Must specify the reference benchmark Verilog file if you want to output any testbenches. For example, ``--reference_benchmark_file_path /temp/benchmark/counter_post_synthesis.v``

  .. option:: --pin_constraints_file <string> or -pcf <string>

    Specify the *Pin Constraints File* (PCF) if you want to custom stimulus in testbenches. For example, ``-pin_constraints_file pin_constraints.xml``
    Strongly recommend for multi-clock simulations. See detailed file format about :ref:`file_format_pin_constraints_file`.

  .. option:: --explicit_port_mapping

    Use explicit port mapping when writing the Verilog netlists

  .. option:: --default_net_type <string>

    Specify the default net type for the Verilog netlists. Currently, supported types are ``none`` and ``wire``. Default value: ``none``.

  .. option:: --support_icarus_simulator
     
    Output Verilog netlists with syntax that iVerilog simulator can accept

  .. option:: --verbose

    Show verbose log

write_simulation_task_info
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

  Write an interchangeable file in ``.ini`` format to interface HDL simulators, such as iVerilog and Modelsim.

  .. option:: --file <string> or -f <string>

    Specify the file path to output simulation-related information. For example, ``--file simulation.ini``

  .. option:: --hdl_dir <string>

    Specify the directory path where HDL netlists are created. For example, ``--hdl_dir ./SRC``

  .. option:: --reference_benchmark_file_path <string>

    Must specify the reference benchmark Verilog file if you want to output any testbenches. For example, ``--reference_benchmark_file_path /temp/benchmark/counter_post_synthesis.v``

  .. option:: --testbench_type <string>

    Specify the type of testbenches [``preconfigured_testbench``|``full_testbench``]. By default, it is the ``preconfigured_testbench``.

  .. option:: --verbose

    Show verbose log
