docs/source/manual/file_formats/repack_design_constraints.rst, before:

.. _file_formats_repack_design_constraints:

Repack Design Constraints (.xml)
--------------------------------

An example of design constraints is shown as follows.

.. code-block:: xml

  <repack_design_constraints>
    <pin_constraint pb_type="clb" pin="clk[0]" net="clk0"/>
    <pin_constraint pb_type="clb" pin="clk[1]" net="clk1"/>
    <pin_constraint pb_type="clb" pin="clk[2]" net="OPEN"/>
    <pin_constraint pb_type="clb" pin="clk[3]" net="OPEN"/>
  </repack_design_constraints>

.. option:: pb_type="<string>"

  The pb_type name to be constrained, which should be consistent with VPR's architecture description.

.. option:: pin="<string>"

  The pin name of the ``pb_type`` to be constrained, which should be consistent with VPR's architecture description.

.. option:: net="<string>"

  The net name of the pin to be mapped, which should be consistent with net definition in your ``.blif`` file. The reserved word ``OPEN`` means that no net should be mapped to a given pin. Please ensure that it is not conflicted with any net names in your ``.blif`` file.
  
.. warning:: Design constraints is a feature for power-users. It may cause repack to fail. It is users's responsibility to ensure proper design constraints

Commit message:

[Doc] Add disclaimer for limitations when using repack pin constraints

docs/source/manual/file_formats/repack_design_constraints.rst, after:

.. _file_formats_repack_design_constraints:

Repack Design Constraints (.xml)
--------------------------------

.. warning:: For the best practice, current repack design constraints only support the net remapping between pins in the same port. Pin constraints are **NOT** allowed for two separated ports.

   - A legal pin constraint example: when there are two clock nets, ``clk0`` and ``clk1``, pin constraints are forced on two pins in a clock port ``clk[0:2]`` (e.g., ``clk[0] = clk0`` and ``clk[1] == clk1``). 
   - An **illegal** pin constraint example: when there are two clock nets, ``clk0`` and ``clk1``, pin constraints are forced on two clock ports ``clkA[0]`` and ``clkB[0]`` (e.g., ``clkA[0] = clk0`` and ``clkB[0] == clk1``).

An example of design constraints is shown as follows.

.. code-block:: xml

  <repack_design_constraints>
    <pin_constraint pb_type="clb" pin="clk[0]" net="clk0"/>
    <pin_constraint pb_type="clb" pin="clk[1]" net="clk1"/>
    <pin_constraint pb_type="clb" pin="clk[2]" net="OPEN"/>
    <pin_constraint pb_type="clb" pin="clk[3]" net="OPEN"/>
  </repack_design_constraints>

.. option:: pb_type="<string>"

  The pb_type name to be constrained, which should be consistent with VPR's architecture description.

.. option:: pin="<string>"

  The pin name of the ``pb_type`` to be constrained, which should be consistent with VPR's architecture description.

.. option:: net="<string>"

  The net name of the pin to be mapped, which should be consistent with net definition in your ``.blif`` file. The reserved word ``OPEN`` means that no net should be mapped to a given pin. Please ensure that it is not conflicted with any net names in your ``.blif`` file.
 
.. warning:: Design constraints is a feature for power-users. It may cause repack to fail. It is users's responsibility to ensure proper design constraints
